The Submillimeter Telescope is located on Mount Graham, about 70 miles North-East of the University of Arizona. This 10-meter telescope is operated by the Arizona Radio Observatory at the University of Arizona. It is one of the three telescopes in the original EHT array, and the only telescope on the continental US that participates in the 2017 EHT observation.
The Atacama Pathfinder Experiment was built and operated by the European Southern Observatory, the Max Planck Institute for Radio Astronomy, and the Onsala Space Observatory. It is the largest submillimetre-wavelength single-dish telescope operating in the southern hemisphere.
This 30-meter diameter telescope is operated by the Institute for Radio Astronomy in the Millimeter Range (IRAM). Located in Pico del Veleta, the second highest peak in the Spanish Sierra Nevada, this is the eastern edge of the EHT array.
The JCMT, located on Mauna Kea, looks out of its enclosure through a giant gore-tex sheet that blocks the sun and wind but lets millimeter-waves through. It is currently operated by the East Asian Observatory.
The Large Millimeter Telescope is the world’s largest single telescope that operates at millimeter wavelengths. It is a Mexican–American joint project of the Instituto Nacional de Astrofísica, Óptica y Electrónica and the University of Massachusetts Amherst.
The Submillimeter Array is another telescope located on Mauna Kea in Hawaii. With its high elevation, dry environment, and stable atmosphere, Mauna Kea is one of the best astronomy sites in the world. Along with the JCMT, the SMA represents the Western Edge of the EHT.
The Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array is high in the Atacama Desert in Chile, the driest nonpolar desert in the world. Astronomers and Engineers working here need to use oxygen tanks for breathing. This telescope is an international partnership among Europe, the United States, Canada, Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, and Chile. It is the most sensitive telescope in the EHT array.
The South Pole Telescope is a 10 meter diameter telescope located at the Amundsen-Scott South Pole Station. It was originally built to observe the cosmic microwave background from the Big Bang. Steward astronomers Dan Marrone and Junhan Kim led the effort to make this telescope part of the EHT array with a new camera.
The Greenland Telescope is an international collaboration led by the Academia Sinica Institute of Astronomy and Astrophysics. Like Kitt Peak, it contains a prototype antenna for the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array. Located in Summit Camp, a year-round research station on the apex of the Greenland Ice Sheet, It is the only submillimeter-wave astronomical observatory in the Arctic Circle.
The NOrthern Extended Millimeter Array is a twelve-antenna interferometer array operated by the Institut de radioastronomie millimétrique. It is another project of the Institute for Radio Astronomy in the Millimeter Range, and is the most sensitive millimeter array in the northern hemisphere.
The 12-meter telescope at Kitt Peak is 50 miles South-West of the University of Arizona. The radio telescope is one of three prototype antennas built and tested for the Atacama Large Millimeter/submillimeter Array. It is now operated by the Arizona Radio Observatory at the University of Arizona, along with the Submillimeter Telescope.